SHREVEPORT, La., June 29, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Southwestern Electric Power Co., an American Electric
Power (Nasdaq: AEP) company, has received approval by the Louisiana Public Service Commission (LPSC)
to move forward with its fuel-free power plan to acquire up to 999 megawatts (MW) of renewable
generation resources. The LPSC today approved the terms of a settlement agreement reached on March
10, 2023, by all parties in the proceeding, subject to certain procedural conditions moving forward.
This effort will help meet projected power needs while protecting customers from volatility in
energy costs. The additional generating capacity is necessary to meet the energy needs of SWEPCO
customers. That need has increased due to new rules from the Southwest Power Pool (SPP) that require
utilities to have available additional generation capacity to support reliability. SPP is the
14-state grid-balancing authority that includes Louisiana, Arkansas and Texas. "SWEPCO's analysis of
our generation needs showed that the lowest cost, best value option for capacity was adding wind and
solar resources," said Brett Mattison, SWEPCO president and Chief Operating Officer. "We appreciate
our regulatory commissioners allowing us to bring more low-cost, renewable energy to Louisiana
customers." One solar and two wind projects are to be constructed by Invenergy and acquired by
SWEPCO. The three projects were identified through a competitive bidding process. They are:
Mooringsport, a 200 MW solar facility located in Caddo Parish, Louisiana. Diversion, a 200.6 MW wind
facility in Baylor County, Texas Wagon Wheel, a 598.4 MW wind facility located in Garfield,
Kingfisher, Logan, Payne, and Noble counties in Oklahoma. SWEPCO's need for capacity is driven by
the retirement of aging SWEPCO generation units. With these retirements, SWEPCO is facing a capacity
deficit beginning in 2023 that grows to 1,574 MW in 2028 after the retirement of other generating
units. SWEPCO intends to evaluate and/or conduct additional requests for proposals to explore more
opportunities to add low-cost generation and capacity in the coming years. SWEPCO's long-term
strategy calls for more than one-third of its SPP-accredited capacity to be satisfied with wind and
solar resources. Three wind farms in north-central Oklahoma already deliver renewable energy to
SWEPCO's Louisiana and Arkansas customers. Today's action by the LPSC, in conjunction with the
Arkansas Public Service Commission's June 1 approval, allows SWEPCO to move forward with plans to
acquire up to 999 MW of renewable generation resources. SWEPCO serves more than 551,000 customers in
three states, including 125,992 in Arkansas. About Southwestern Electric Power Co. (SWEPCO)SWEPCO,
an American Electric Power (Nasdaq: AEP) company, serves more than 551,000 customers in Northwest
and Central Louisiana, Northeast Texas and the Texas Panhandle, and Western Arkansas. SWEPCO's
headquarters are in Shreveport, La. News releases and other information about SWEPCO can be found at
SWEPCO.com. Connect with us at Facebook.com/SWEPCO, Twitter.com/SWEPCOnews, Instagram.com/swepco,
Youtube.com/SWEPCOtv and LinkedIn.com/company/swepco. About American Electric Power (AEP)American
Electric Power, based in Columbus, Ohio, is powering a cleaner, brighter energy future for its
customers and communities. AEP's approximately 17,000 employees operate and maintain the nation's
largest electricity transmission system and more than 225,000 miles of distribution lines to safely
deliver reliable and affordable power to 5.6 million regulated customers in 11 states. AEP also is
one of the nation's largest electricity producers with approximately 30,000 megawatts of diverse
generating capacity, including more than 7,000 megawatts of renewable energy. The company's plans
include growing its renewable generation portfolio to approximately 50% of total capacity by 2032.
AEP is on track to reach an 80% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from 2005 levels by 2030 and
has committed to achieving net zero by 2045. AEP is recognized consistently for its focus on
sustainability, community engagement, and diversity, equity and inclusion. AEP's family of companies
includes utilities AEP Ohio, AEP Texas, Appalachian Power (in Virginia and West Virginia), AEP
Appalachian Power (in Tennessee), Indiana Michigan Power, Kentucky Power, Public Service Company of
Oklahoma, and Southwestern Electric Power Company (in Arkansas, Louisiana, east Texas and the Texas
Panhandle). AEP also owns AEP Energy, which provides innovative competitive energy solutions
nationwide. For more information, visit aep.com   SOURCE American Electric Power