NetChoice, a group whose members include Facebook parent Meta, TikTok and Twitter, filed a federal
lawsuit over the measure signed by Republican Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders in April. The law requires
social media companies to contract with third-party vendors to perform age verification checks on
new users. The requirement is set to go into effect on Sept. 1. The lawsuit argues that the new
requirement violates the constitutional rights of users and singles out types of speech that would
be restricted. "S.B. 396 imposes onerous obligations on  social media companies  that severely
burden both minors  and adults  First Amendment rights to speak, listen, and associate without
government interference on the widely used online services that it covers," the lawsuit said.
Republican Attorney General Tim Griffin, who was named as the defendant in the lawsuit, said he
looked forward to  vigorously defending  the law. The law is being challenged as social media
companies have faced increasing scrutiny over their platforms' effect on teen mental health, one of
the concerns Sanders cited as she pushed for the legislation. The governor said Thursday that she
was confident in Griffin's ability to defend the law.  For years, social media companies have gotten
away with exploiting kids, and it s proven to have a negative impact on their mental health,"
Sanders said in a statement. "I promised to hold Big Tech accountable to protect kids and empower
parents.  Arkansas' restrictions would only apply to social media platforms that generate more than
$100 million in annual revenue. It also wouldn t apply to certain platforms, including LinkedIn,
Google and YouTube. The lawsuit says the distinctions the measure makes between types of platforms
that must adhere to the age-verification requirement and those that don't  make no sense in theory
or in practice.  Social media companies that knowingly violate the age verification requirement
could face a $2,500 fine for each violation under the new law. The law also prohibits social media
companies and third-party vendors from retaining users' identifying information after they ve been
granted access to the social media site.