KEY POINTS Check out our pick for Best No Annual Fee Credit Card of 2023 There are two main
categories of Costco memberships that individuals can buy. The basic membership -- formally known as
a Gold Star membership -- costs $60 per year and includes access to Costco's warehouse clubs and
adjacent businesses such as its gas stations and tire centers. There's also the Executive
membership, which costs $120, or exactly twice as much as the Gold Star level. However, the extra
$60 per year from your checking account could be worth it depending on your spending habits. Here's
a rundown of what a Costco Executive membership gets you and whether it might be a good idea for
you. For most people, the biggest perk of an Executive membership is an annual 2% reward on
qualifying Costco purchases. This works similarly to a credit card cash back rewards program, except
the reward is only issued once per year and can only be redeemed for Costco purchases. Gas is
excluded from the rewards program, as are purchases of tobacco, Costco Shop Cards, food court
purchases, and alcohol and prescription purchases in certain states. But even with these exclusions,
getting 2% back on your Costco purchases (including online purchases) every year can be a big deal.
Think of it this way. If you spend $3,000 on groceries and other purchases in Costco warehouse clubs
in a given year, 2% of this amount translates into a $60 reward that can be used at Costco, thereby
justifying the higher cost of the Executive membership all by itself. In fact, for people who spend
a lot at Costco, this benefit could justify the Executive membership several times over. The annual
reward is capped at $1,000, which would take $50,000 in spending -- but even if you don't come close
to that level, it can be very valuable. Consider that the average family of four budgets nearly $900
per month for groceries alone, according to Mint, and it's not hard to see how those 2% rewards can
add up quickly. Throw in some other purchases at Costco, and it's easier than you may think to have
five-figure Costco spending in a year. In addition to the 2% reward, there are two other benefits of
Executive membership, according to Costco's website: These benefits can vary widely, and many people
don't use Costco for anything other than everyday shopping. So, for the bulk of members, the big
question is whether you spend enough for the 2% reward to exceed the extra cost of an Executive
membership. The short answer is "it depends." As we saw in the previous section, frequent customers
could potentially justify the cost with the 2% reward alone. I have a family of four and we
typically hit this spending threshold before the summer each year, so we find the Executive
membership to be well worth the cost.  If you're using the wrong credit or debit card, it could be
costing you serious money. Our experts love this top pick , which features a 0% intro APR until
2024, an insane cash back rate of up to 5%, and all somehow for no annual fee. In fact, this card is
so good that our experts even use it personally. Click here to read our full review for free and
apply in just 2 minutes. Read our free review