An in-house focus and change-maker competition, as well as elite excellence at international
conferences, recognized during National Safety Month Cintas Corporation s award-winning ergonomics
program encourages solutions from the field where its frontline partners identify and invent
creative solutions to make the jobs they do easier on their bodies. Through an in-house ergonomics
competition and participation in international events like the annual Applied Ergonomics Conference
(pictured), Cintas  program has established leadership and innovation in the field. (Photo: Business
Wire) "Our program is driven by frontline employee-partner activity," said Dr. Davana Pilczuk,
Cintas  Corporate Ergonomist. "At Cintas, we feel the field employee-partners have inside knowledge
as to how to improve their jobs, so our program is designed to listen to them. Most other companies
have ergo programs that are expert-driven, meaning they have a staff of ergonomists making decisions
and solving problems." June is National Safety Month and an opportunity to shine light on the
meaningful and impactful efforts of Cintas  ergonomics program. The company s heralded Health &
Safety team is focused on the well-being of Cintas  employee-partners year round, and the ergonomics
team has a specific emphasis on not only the workforce s safety, but also improving workmanship
quality and overall productivity. That also includes a pair of tentpole events that highlight the
innovation and ingenuity that comes from the company s front lines: an internal ergo competition and
the company s ongoing leadership and success at the field s international competition and
conference. Cintas  award-winning ergonomics solutions begin in-house with a program that helps
employee-partners perform their jobs more safely and efficiently, and inspires personal involvement
in developing ergonomic solutions. The result: a true focus on the worker that separates Cintas from
other companies in the space. Just one example is its ergonomics competition, which the company has
staged for the last five years. The competition seeks to engage the workforce and encourages
employee-partners to invent new and creative ways to make the jobs they do easier on their bodies.
Last December, the Cintas-hosted competition featured 13 winners from more than 50 entries. Almost
200 employee-partners from the Rental, First Aid & Safety and Fire Protection divisions, as well as
its Global Supply Chain arm, logged on to learn the results of the in-house competition that earned
the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration s (OSHA s) Innovation Award in 2019. The
internal contest has also served as a benchmark of several Fortune 500 companies. In March, Cintas
was well-represented at the internationally recognized 26th annual Applied Ergonomics Conference
(AEC) in New Orleans, with multiple employee-partners competing for the elite annual Ergo Cup and
Excellence Awards. Since 2018, Cintas  rich ergonomics leadership has been recognized regularly in
the Ergo Cup. The company has won four Ergo Cup awards (2018, two in 2021, 2022) and three
Excellence Awards (2019, 2022, 2023) in that time. Further, in 2023, Stephen Jenkins   Cintas
Director of Health & Safety and 2018 AEC Practitioner of the Year   gave the conference s keynote
address. Cintas  unique combination of the participation and involvement of its employee-partners,
as well as the awards they ve garnered for their efforts to reduce wear from repetitive motions,
provides the company opportunities to feature their frontline partners at international conferences
like the Applied Ergonomics Conference. Cintas employee-partners and ergo experts staff booths and
presentation spaces to talk about their solutions and how Cintas incorporates ergonomics into
everyday work. Visitors at the event can get an up-close look at innovations that Cintas  ergonomics
program has provided for production, service and office situations. The collective buy-in and
engagement from employee-partners in the Rental Division   the company s largest   has identified
efficiency improvements that are quantified by its "motions saved" metric. In fiscal year 2022   the
last full year of data available   that number reached an astounding 32 billion, with the company s
North Central Group leading the division. "The design of our program intentionally focuses on
including each employee-partner as much as possible in the problem-solving process," Pilczuk said.
"Culture-driven programs like ours take years to develop, but once it is engrained into our
business, we no longer have to solely rely on experts to solve problems. "We believe in empowering
partners to speak up, lead and create change where needed," Pilczuk added. About Cintas Corporation
Cintas Corporation helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes get Ready  to open
their doors with confidence every day by providing products and services that help keep their
customers  facilities and employees clean, safe, and looking their best. With offerings including
uniforms, mats, mops, towels, restroom supplies, workplace water services, first aid and safety
products, eye-wash stations, safety training, fire extinguishers, sprinkler systems and alarm
service, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday . Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas is a
publicly held Fortune 500 company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS
and is a component of both the Standard & Poor s 500 Index and Nasdaq-100 Index. Contacts