 Travel Stocks Charge Higher Ahead of Peak Season Yet companies have focused on paying down debt
instead of returning cash to shareholders  A resurgence in travel has boosted stocks of airlines and
related industries. Photo: Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel/Associated Press .  By Charley Grant June
29, 2023 5:30 am ET . The U.S. travel industry has recovered from the impact of Covid-19. Its stock-
price recovery is still a work in progress. Americans are once again boarding flights in numbers
similar to prepandemic levels. About 2.3 million passengers, on average, have passed through U.S.
airports each day this year, according to data from the Transportation Security Administration. That
is on par with the daily average in 2019. Demand... The U.S. travel industry has recovered from the
impact of Covid-19. Its stock-price recovery is still a work in progress. Americans are once again
boarding flights in numbers similar to prepandemic levels. About 2.3 million passengers, on average,
have passed through U.S. airports each day this year, according to data from the Transportation
Security Administration. That is on par with the daily average in 2019. Demand for domestic leisure
travel soared after the worst of the pandemic as flexible work schedules became more common.
Meanwhile, business travel and international demand have been slower to recover, said
Michael Bellisario,       senior hotels analyst at Baird.  People are traveling, but they re
traveling to different markets, and on different days of the week, and for different purposes,  he
said. . The resurgence has led to booming business and rising share prices for airlines and related
industries, such as hotels and casinos. Executives say they expect the good times to continue. Delta
Air Lines shares advanced 6.8% Tuesday, their best day since October, after the airline raised its
profit outlook for the year. Cruise operator Carnival said Monday that advance bookings and customer
deposits are at record levels. Shares of Carnival have more than doubled this year, making it one of
the top performers in the S&P 500. United Airlines Holdings has advanced 49%. Booking Holdings is up
32%, while Marriott International has gained 19%. The S&P 500 is up 14%. Investors pay attention to
travel trends because they provide insight into the willingness of both consumers and businesses to
spend. Despite fears of a recession, which hit travel stocks last year, unemployment remains low and
consumers are still spending on discretionary categories. Newsletter Sign-Up Markets A.M. A pre-
markets primer packed with news, trends and ideas. Plus, up-to-the-minute market data. Subscribe Now
.  Everyone s worried about the consumer. I get it,  Delta Chief Executive Officer              Ed
Bastian told Wall Street analysts on Tuesday.  They should worry about the consumer maybe in certain
sectors, but not in this sector.  Valuations have come down as business outlooks have brightened.
American Airlines Group trades at 5.5 times its expected earnings over the next 12 months, down from
eight times in February. Royal Caribbean Group changes hands at 17 times forward earnings, down from
20 times, according to FactSet. The S&P 500 trades at 20 times forward earnings. Still, stock prices
for many companies in the sector sit well below prepandemic levels. United shares are down about 28%
from levels just before Covid-19 fears sparked a selloff in 2020. Carnival stock is down about 58%.
. Cruise operator Carnival says it expects to approach investment-grade status by 2026. Photo:
Ricardo Maldonado Rozo/Shutterstock . Companies have had to focus on paying down the debt they
incurred to survive the pandemic, instead of returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends
or stock buybacks. Many travel-focused companies now have speculative, or junk-rated, credit
ratings.  Priority one is getting down to investment grade,  said              Chris Raite,
industrials analyst at research firm Third Bridge Group. SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS Are travel stocks
recent gains sustainable? Join the conversation below. . Carnival said Monday it expects to approach
investment-grade status by 2026, while Delta said it expects its balance sheet will strengthen back
to prepandemic levels next year. In many cases, higher costs from key inputs such as labor and fuel
have accompanied higher revenue. Several airlines have agreed to new contracts with pilots that call
for raises of as much as 30%. Shares of major hotel companies such as Marriott and Hilton Worldwide
Holdings are trading near records because they don t own real estate outright and have avoided some
of the cost pressures that have hampered other travel sectors. That has freed up cash available for
shareholders, said Baird s Bellisario. Write to Charley Grant at charles.grant@wsj.com Tap to View .