Ark Invest's Cathie Wood is known for investing in disruptive innovation. The super investor has
placed big bets on artificial intelligence (AI), which is widely regarded as one of the most
disruptive and transformative technologies today. In a recent interview with Bloomberg Television,
Wood said that Nvidia "will do well over time." But she sees a new group of stocks that will
"benefit from the foundation that Nvidia has laid." The keyword is software. "In our view, for every
dollar of hardware that Nvidia sells, software providers, SaaS [software as a service] providers
will generate $8 in revenue," she said. "So we are looking to the software providers who are
actually right now where Nvidia was when we first bought it." The super investor then named three
software companies she believes will thrive because of AI. Here's a look at the trio and another
company she calls "the biggest artificial intelligence play." UiPath is a robotic process automation
software company that provides automation solutions for businesses. Its AI-powered UiPath Business
Automation Platform is capable of understanding, automating and operating end-to-end processes. In
the first quarter of 2023, the company's revenue grew 18% year over year to $289.6 million. Notably,
its dollar-based net retention rate was 122%. The stock has surged 36% year to date, but it hasn't
always been a hot commodity: In 2022, UiPath shares plunged 70%. Wood's Ark Innovation ETF owns
28,363,938 shares of UiPath. With the position valued at  $486.73 million, UiPath is the fifth-
largest holding at Ark. Twilio's cloud communications platform allows businesses to develop and
integrate various communication channels into their applications. Its application programming
interfaces enable developers to incorporate voice, messaging and video seamlessly, helping companies
enhance customer engagement. In the first quarter, Twilio surpassed 300,000 active customer
accounts. Meanwhile, revenue rose 15% year over year to $1.01 billion. In its latest earnings
conference call, Twilio Co-Founder and CEO Jeff Lawson said he believes that artificial intelligence
"will be a material accelerant over time for Twilio's business." Ark Innovation ETF holds 4,771,968
shares of Twilio, a stake with a market value of $304.50 million. Wood's flagship fund also owns
$300.43 million worth of telemedicine company Teladoc Health. The company's platform connects
patients with healthcare professionals through video, phone and messaging. At the peak of the
COVID-19 pandemic, when in-person nonemergency medical care was temporarily halted, the demand for
telehealth services skyrocketed. In 2020, Teladoc attracted a lot of investor attention as its
revenue shot up 98%. While the pandemic is largely in the rearview mirror, the company continues to
expand its business. Teladoc's first-quarter revenue showed an 11% increase year over year. The
stock, however, wasn't able to maintain the upward momentum. Trading at $25.80 per share, Teladoc is
down more than 90% from its all-time high reached in February 2021. "We talk about Tesla all the
time, it actually is the biggest artificial intelligence play," she said. The reason has to do with
the electric car company's autonomous driving technology. Tesla is ARKK's largest holding with an
11.59% weighting. Wood expects autonomous taxi platforms to deliver $8 trillion to $10 trillion in
revenue globally in 2030 "from almost zero right now." And because of Tesla's capabilities on that
front, the booming autonomous taxi market could take its share price to a whole new level. "We
believe that in five years, 2027, it will be a $2,000 stock if our research is correct," she said.
Considering that Tesla shares trade at around $257 right now, Wood's price target implies a
potential upside of over 670%. .   2023 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice.
All rights reserved.