(Adds background in paragraph 8 and 9) June 29 (Reuters) - Volkswagen is in talks with Tesla to
adopt its North American Charging Standard (NACS), joining a slew of automakers and charging
equipment makers that are choosing the technology. "Volkswagen Group and its brands are currently
evaluating the implementation of the Tesla North American Charging Standard (NACS) for its North
American customers," the German automaker said. Electrify America, Volkswagen's EV charging network
unit, has more than 850 charging stations with about 4,000 chargers in the United States and Canada.
During the NACS transition, Volkswagen, which sold nearly 16,000 EVs in the United States in the
first quarter, will continue to offer the widely used Combined Charging System (CCS) connector. It
had sold just 7,900 EVs a year ago. Tesla, meanwhile, has expanded beyond its connectors to include
CCS at some of its U.S. charging stations as the Biden administration seeks to provide billions in
subsidies to expand charging networks. The EV maker's Superchargers account for about 60% of the
total number of fast chargers in the United States, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.
Automakers such as Ford, General Motors and ChargePoint are among the companies that have signed up
for Tesla's charging design in the past few weeks. Electric vehicle charging companies are also
cautiously embracing Tesla's charging design, as they are in danger of losing out on customers if
they offer only the CCS design, backed by automakers like Volkswagen and Hyundai Motor . The
companies' decisions for NACS transition have shaken up the EV charging industry that likely was
drifting towards the rival CCS connection, with the help of federal subsidies. Separately, Polestar
has signed an agreement with Tesla to make available its charging network to the customers of the
Swedish electric vehicle maker in the United States and Canada. (Reporting by Akash Sriram and
Nathan Gomes in Bengaluru; Editing by Shinjini Ganguli, Arun Koyyur and Shweta Agarwal)