The tech giant said it will remove Canadian news links from Google News   a personalized aggregator
service available by web or app that highlights local news   and from Google Discover, a feature on
mobile phones that helps people find content. Only Canadian news will be blocked, so Canadian users
will still be able to see content from outlets like Fox News or BBC, for example. Google said it has
informed Prime Minister Justin Trudeau s Liberal government of its decision. It did not say exactly
when it will begin to remove news, but it will happen before the law comes into force. The law
passed last week and will come into effect by the end of the year. Kent Walker, president of global
affairs for Google and its parent company Alphabet, said he s disappointed it has come to this but
that the law is  unworkable.  In a blog post published to Google s website on Thursday, Walker said
the bill creates a price on links, resulting in an uncapped financial liability  simply for
facilitating Canadians  access to news from Canadian publishers.   We don t take this decision or
its impacts lightly and believe it s important to be transparent with Canadian publishers and our
users as early as possible,  Walker wrote. The Online News Act requires both companies to enter into
agreements with news publishers to pay them for news content that appears on their sites if it helps
them generate money. Google had been seeking assurances about how much that could cost them, and how
the bargaining process will unfold. Those details are likely to become clear after the bill s
regulatory process is complete. Legacy media and broadcasters have praised the bill, which promises
to  enhance fairness  in the digital news marketplace and help bring in more money for shrinking
newsrooms. Tech giants including Meta and Google have been blamed in the past for disrupting and
dominating the advertising industry, eclipsing smaller, traditional players. Canadian Heritage
Minister Pablo Rodriguez has said previously he is hopeful that the government will come to a
positive resolution with both companies to prevent them from removing news. Rodriguez also said his
government will continue to support newsrooms if Google and Meta pull news from their platforms,
though he did not say exactly how that will be done. Since 2008, nearly 500 newsrooms have closed
across the country, Rodriguez said.