 Google to Block Canada News Links From Search Function in Response to Law Company executive says
new law creates  untenable level of product uncertainty   Officials from Google and the Canadian
government held talks to address the company s concerns about legislative moves to force digital
platforms to pay media outlets. Photo: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg News .  By Paul Vieira June 29,
2023 3:08 pm ET . OTTAWA Google said Thursday it would remove links to news articles on its search
function for Canadian users once a new national law takes effect that compels digital platforms to
compensate domestic media outlets. Google now joins Meta Platforms, the owner of the Facebook and
Instagram platforms, in issuing such a threat once the government implements the law. The law, which
received final approval from Canadian lawmakers a week ago, requires digital platforms to strike
commercial deals with news publishers, which incorporate... OTTAWA Google said Thursday it would
remove links to news articles on its search function for Canadian users once a new national law
takes effect that compels digital platforms to compensate domestic media outlets . Google now joins
Meta Platforms , the owner of the Facebook and Instagram platforms, in issuing such a threat once
the government implements the law. The law, which received final approval from Canadian lawmakers a
week ago, requires digital platforms to strike commercial deals with news publishers, which
incorporate print, online and broadcasting outlets, for their content. The law aims to provide media
outlets with a financial lifeline to offset the loss of advertising revenue that has migrated to the
digital sphere. If negotiations fail, the law calls for the two sides to enter binding arbitration
to determine appropriate compensation. When the law will take effect is unclear. After the law s
formal approval, Canadian officials said they intended to consult with industry representatives
about final regulations in regards to mandated negotiations with news outlets. Meta and Google have
argued the law would put a price on free links to webpages, which contravenes copyright legislation
and upends the concept of an open internet where users can search and connect to material without
restrictions.  This creates an untenable level of product uncertainty, financial uncertainty that we
don t think any business would be in a position to accept,  said              Kent Walker,
president of global affairs at Google, a unit of Alphabet . A spokeswoman for Canada s minister
responsible for cultural policy didn t immediately respond to a request for comment. Walker said
officials from Google and the Canadian government held talks to address the company s concerns,  but
we didn t get a reason to believe that there s a viable path forward here.  On Wednesday, Prime
Minister              Justin Trudeau       said officials were in contact with Google to find a
compromise. Google had resisted issuing a threat to block access to Canadian users, much like Meta
has. Meta warned eight months ago of its intention to block news content to users in the country
much as it did for a short period in Australia over two years ago  and this month conducted tests
that limit some users and publishers from viewing or sharing some news content in Canada. Earlier
this year, Google reduced the availability of news links to Canadian user s during a five-week test
run, as the company prepared how to respond to legislation which ultimately became law. Paul Deegan,
head of News Media Canada, a lobby group for the country s news publishers, said that Google and
Meta should be working to ensure final regulations are balanced and fair,  rather than demonstrating
their extraordinary market power by withholding access to timely, accurate news for Canadians.
Write to Paul Vieira at Paul.Vieira@wsj.com